---
layout: post
title: 'How I Became a Software Engineer'
---

![The road](/assets/images/road.png)

People often ask me how I became a software engineer, but it’s not a short story. It wasn’t like I woke up one day and
decided this, it took time and a lot of effort.

The truth is that I had a lot of influence. I used to spend a lot of time in a friend’s house playing video games like
Dota 2, Counter-Strike, Grand Fantasia, and Ragnarok… His father worked fixing computers, so his house was always filled
with hardware everywhere. This was the scene where I got used to living daily with computers. I know what you are
thinking, but no, his father didn’t teach us how to program, but I had the opportunity to see some interesting computer
problems being solved there, like creating a shared folder to share files with the TV or the PlayStation 2. I just
really learned how those things work when I was in college in the Systems Network classes.

My friend and I were into games so one day he decided to try to build an RPG game using a software called RPG Maker that
allows you to build your own game with a lot of presets and dragging and dropping things on the screen… He encountered a
limitation in the game that could only be solved by writing code, but he gave up because he didn’t know how to do it. I
think I was thirteen back then and as far as I remember that was the first time I saw some actual code in my life or
something that only could be done by writing some script or code. It was a remarkable moment because some things finally
started to make sense in my mind, things that I don’t really can put in words now but I remember the feeling, I was
starting to understand things more deeply and how incredible would be if I learned how to write that script to make my
friend impressed and his game works as expected… Well, I couldn’t do it.

I never had access to a computer with full potential in my house, mostly because we didn’t have an internet connection
so every time I wanted to use a computer I had to go to a Lan House to be able to access my Orkut account, play Need For
Speed Underground or do some scholar work… Actually, that’s all a did there, I don’t remember myself searching for
things about coding and so on but I believe it helped me to get used to using the internet as an auxiliary for basically
everything. Oh, you might be curious, I bought my first notebook in my first year of college.

When I finished elementary school, I passed a selection process to do the regular High School plus a course about
administration in one of the best public schools in the city thanks to a friend of mine called Gabriel who told me about
it. The administration course led to an internship opportunity at Sebrae, which is very known here in Brazil because
they receive public investment to help entrepreneurs to create and grow their businesses.

My experience in Sebrae was awesome but I actually don’t wanna talk about this, I wanna talk about the time that I
didn’t know how to use a Proxy Server. Well, the IT guys blocked access to everything that wasn’t related to work, and
because of that, I’ve spent a lot of time trying to find a way to access my Facebook account. Well, another thing that I
didn’t know how to do it. Unfortunately, my searches on Google were useless and I found nothing, but I’ve learned
something, that was possible to have control over a network in a way that I could block access to everything I wanted
and that the IT guys were doing kind of magic in their room to make it work. I learned after taking several Network
classes that I could use a Proxy Server to access anything I wanted.… Well, I wish I had known that before but it was
probably better this way.

In High School I had a classmate who brought his notebook to class every day, I remember him playing a game called
Skyrim every time. We were always trying to fix the school computers because the school didn’t have enough money to pay
to fix them, it was a fun period of my life… Well, once he show up with a Java program that he learned how to write
reading a tutorial, it was a bank app with all the regular options like withdrawal, transference's, deposits, and so on.
He demonstrated some features live, which was a turning point for me. I finally understood how computer programs are
made, even though I couldn’t understand what he was writing. This experience motivated me to learn how to do it myself.

In high school, I had an informatics teacher who spent a lot of time explaining computer science concepts to me and my
classmates, although it wasn’t her primary area of focus. I am extremely grateful to her because I learned a lot from
her and she made me feel confident in my ability to learn even the most challenging topics. Thank you, Teacher Mirra!

When I was almost finishing high school, my father was offered a job in another state, far from our hometown. He didn’t
hesitate to accept the offer, as he had been unemployed for a long time and was in need of making money. My father moved
to the extreme south of the country for work and, as a result, our entire family started to move there as well.

After researching the city, I discovered that it was a great place to live and study, so I decided to move there and try
attending a public university. However, I had to score well on the national exams to be admitted to college. It was a
difficult time in my life because I am not naturally a super-intelligent person; I am grit. So, I had to study hard, and
it wasn’t easy. But, I did manage to score well and I decided to apply to the Information Systems program at the
Catarinense Federal Institute in the city where part of my family was already living. I was accepted! I was overjoyed to
receive the news, and I was extremely proud of myself.

In college, I learned the fundamentals and advanced topics in computer science, and I realized that I wanted to work
with software development. So, I focused on related disciplines like Object-Oriented Programming, Algorithms, Databases,
Networks, Distributed Computing, etc. I began my career as a Software Engineer intern at an HR company, and since then, I have been making
people’s lives better through software.

I am grateful to everyone who has helped me get to where I am today. As I mentioned at the beginning of this text, I
have had a lot of help and good influences, and without them, I wouldn’t have made it this far. There are many details
and other moments that I haven’t mentioned, but they probably wouldn’t fit here anyway. They are stories for another
day. If you have made it this far, thank you very much for reading, and I hope you enjoyed it.